- What are the four main objectives of cryptography?
    Confidentiality
    Integrity
    Authentication
    Nonrepudiation
        - What is it?
            Ensure that a message transferred has been sent and received by the persons intended to.

- What are the 2 types of cryptography?
    Symmetric encryption (secret key encryption)
        Uses the same key for encryption and decription
        Works well if communicating with only few people/agents
    Asymmetric encription (public key encryption)
        Client has 2 keys, a public one for encryption and a private key for decryption

- What are ciphers?
    Algorithms to encrypt and decript the data

- Which encryption algorithm is used for SSL?
    RC4
    This is why TLS should be used now

- Name other encryption algorithm.
    RC 5
    RC 6

- What is a digital signature?
    A mathematical scheme used for the authentication of a digital message.

- What are the two features exposed by a digital signature algorithm? (DSA)
    Signature generation process
        Private key is used to know who has signed it
    Signature verification process
        Public key is used to verify whether the given digital signature is genuine or not.

- What are the benefits of DSA?
    Quick and easy method of business transaction
    Less chances of forgery compared to written signature

- What is the de-facto encryption standard and why?
    RSA encryption, a public key cryptosystem (RC4, RC5, RC6)
    Widely-used, use elementary number theory and 2 large prime numbers

- What are its use?
    Internet encryption
    Authentication system
    Encrypt data

- What is message digest? (one-way hash) functions?
    Distill block of information into a single large number (hex) of fixed size.

- Is it possible to have 2 pieces of information that share the same hash?
    Very unlikely

- Name some hash functions.
    HMAC
    MD2
    MD4
    MD5
    SHA

- What are the 2 fundamental requirements for a cryptographic hash function?
    Input of any length
    Output of a fixed length

- Can a hash be decrypted?
    No, this is the point of a hash

- Is it safe if a hash value of a sensitive document goes out in the open?
    Hashing is your last line of defense, if the hash algorithm is strong enough, no worries

- Is SHA more secure than MD5?
    Yes, but slower to compute

- What is SSH? (Secure Shell)
    A program that is used to log onto another computer over the network, to transfer files from one computer to another.
    Offers authentication and secure communication

- SSH protects against what?
    A remote host sending out packet that pretend to come from another trusted host (IP spoofing)
    An attacker forging domain name server records (DNS spoofing)
    Capturing passwords and other data by intermediate hosts (MitM)
    Exploitation of data by the people who control the intermediate hosts

- What is Public Key Infrastructure? (PKI)
    A security architecture to increase confidentiality of information exchanged over the insecure internet.
    PKI helps to bind public keys with corresponding user identities by means of a certificate authority (CA)
    Cryptographic keys can be delivered securely between users by PKI
    Uses a pair of public and private key to assure secure communication over the internet

    Ensure that you connect to the right person with the public key

- What are the components of PKI?
    A certificate authority that issues and verifies digital certificates
    A certificate management system for generation, distribution, storage and verification of certificates
    One or more directories where the certificates (with their public keys) are held
    A registration authority (RA) that acts as the verifier for the certificate authority

- How does PKI works?
    Sender and receiver agree upon a secret communication using public key encryption with digital signature

    The correspondence between a public and private key is taken care by the CA (based on the public key, CA determines the owner of the respective private key)

    Initially, the user requests the CA for biding his or her public key, the CA signs it and issues a public key certificate to the user.

    It binds the user's identity with the user public key.

    Coomunication can now take place with public key cryptography

- What is the job of Registration authority? (RA)
    Verify the identity of the user requesting the certificate

- What is the job of the Valiadation authority? (VA)
    To check if the certificate was issued by a trustworthy CA

- What are CA?
    Entities that issue digital certificates.
    - Name some certificate authorities.
        Comodo
        thwate
        Entrust

- What are the security measure one can take to secure email contents?
    Digital signatures, SSL, TLS

- How does digital signature works?
    The private key is used to create the digital signature
    The public key is used by a relying party to verify the digital signature
        - How does the verifier do that?
            Checks if the digital signature is created with the related private key.
            If the hash result is the same as the original hash result, which was converted into a digital signature during the signing process
    A hash function is used to create and verify the digital signature
        Creates a digital representation of a message (a fingerprint - the hash value)
    - What is the role of the CA here?
        Signs the certificate to assure the authenticity of the public key and the subscriber identity. 

- What is the main function of a certificate?
    To bind a pair of public and privates keys to a particular subscriber
    The public key will be used to verify that the private key was used to create the related digital signature

- In this case of email signature, where are the certificates held?
    In an online database
        The CA can suspend or revoke certificate

- What is SSL? (Secure Sockets Layer)
    Protocol for sending private documents over the internet.
    Privat ekey is used to encrypt data that is transfered over an SSL connection.

- What is the main motive behind SSL?
    Provide privacy between two applications, like a client and a server.

    The protocal is designed to authenticate the server and the client

    Act as an arbitrator between the encryption algorithm and session key, also verifies the destination server before the transmission and reception of data.

- What are the basic properties of the secure channel provided by SSL?
    Has a private channel, where the messages are encrypted after the handshake that defines the secret key
    The channel is authenticated.
        The server end-points are always authenticated
        The client end-points are optionally authenticated
        The channel is reliable, the transmission has an integrity check

- What are the elements included in a session state?
    Session Identifier
        - What is it?
            A random sequence of bytes transmitted by the server to identify an active session state
        - What does it contain?
            Peer certificate (X509)
            Compression method (the algorithm used to compress data prior to encryption)
            Cipher spec (Defines cryptographic attributes like the size of the hash)
            Master secret (secret shared between the client and the server)
            IsResumable (A flag specifies if a new session can be started)
        - What are the elements of the connection state?
            Server write key - The cypher key for data encrypted by the server and decrypted by the client
            Client write key - The cypher key for data encrypted by the client and decrypted by the server

 - How does the SSL Handshake protocol flow works?
    Client sends an hello message and the server must respond with another hello message

    After the connection is established, server sends a certificate to the client for authentication

    Ther server sends a hello done message, to inform that the handshake is completed and waits for client response

    The client answer with a certificate message or a no certificate alert
        If the certificate sent by the client has singing ability, a digitally signed certificate verifies the message

    The client transmit the changed cipher spec message, the client sends a message to initiate the completion of the message under the new algorithm, keys, and secrets

    The server replies by sending its own changed cypher spec message, initiates the completion of the message under the new cipher spec.

    The server starts to exchange the applicaiton layer data

 - What is TLS?
    Like SSL
    Encrypts connection segments at the application layer for the transport layer

    Uses asymmetric crypto for key exchange, symmetric crypto for confidentiallity, message authentication codes for message integrity

 - What are the 2 layers of TLS?
    TLS record protocol
        - What is it?
            Provides secure communication
            Encryption authentication and compression of packets
            Called when the handshake is done
            Checks integrity and origin of data
        - What protocol needs to be used at the transport layer?
            TCP
    TLS handshake protocol
        - What is it?
            Responsible for peers to agree upon security parameters for the record layer

            The handshake is similar to SSL, (decide cipher suite etc.)

- How does disk encryption works?
    Can be software encryption or hardware encryption
    Similar to message encryption.

- Usecase of disk encryption?
    Need to send disc through the mail
    Exchange the data in encrypted form

- What is a cyphertext only attack?
    The attacker gets the cyphertext simply by sniffing the traffic of the user.
    The goal is to find the key used for encryption.

- What is chosen-plaintext attack?
    The attacker defines his own plain text, feeds it to the cypher and analyzes the resulting ciphertext.

- What is known-plain text attack?
    The attacker has access to the ciphertext and the corresponding message, it is then possible to extract the cryptogrphic key.
        (This attack has been used to break enigma, you know that message starts or ends with a subset or one one particular sentence / set of words. You have the plain text and the ciphertext)
        You brute force the key, or reverse engineer it

- What is timing attack?
    The attacker tries to compromise the cryptosystem by analyzing the time taken to execute cryptographic algorithms

 -- p 79 --