- What is the primary use of logs?
	Investigate intrusion attempt

	- What information should be available?
		What vulnerability was exploited
		If the attacker gained unauthorized access to data
		Performed any unauthorized actions

- What events (at least) should be monitored/logged?
	Authentication functionnality
		Successful, failed login, change password
	Key transactions
		Credit cards, funds transfert
	Access attempts that are blocked by the access control mechanisms
	Any requests containing known attack strings

- What is an effective approach to store logs?
	On an autonomous system that accepts only update messages from the main application (no read access, no delete access, etc.)

- What real time actions can be taken when an attack is detected?
	Block IP address
	Take the application offline
	Block requests that are detected as the below anomalies
	Respond increasingly slowly
	Terminate session

- What kind of anomalies should be treated as malicious interaction?
	Usage anomalies, such as large numbers of requests being received from a single IP address  or user
	Business anomalies, such as unusual number of funds transfers from or to a single bank account
	Requests containing known attack strings
	Requests where data that is hidden from ordinary users has been modified

- What can provide such detection?
	Application firewalls and intrusion detection products.

- What are the long-term financial impact of a security breach?
	Lost customers and potential negligence lawsuits

- What considerations should you take regarding logs?
	Copies are made at regular intervals
	Make sure the data is not overwritten
	Should be deleted only when the disposal date is passed, should not be kept after that date.

- Should you plan as if a breach will surely happen in the future?
	Yes, you should have a plan for your public reaction to any incident
	Establish a management incident response team (crisis response team)
		Managing the event from the perspective of the stakeholders
		- How does this team prepare for an incident?
			Develop realistic scenarios that could arise: external fraud, malicious insider, etc.
			Create high-level set of tasks that must be done in each scenario
			Press releases preparation
	Estalish a cyber incident response team
		What happened? How did it happen? What damage? How to prevent?

- What do you need to do to successfully respond to incidents?
	Minimize the number and severity of security incidents
	Assemble the core computer security incident response team
	Define an incident response plan
	Contain the damage and minimize risks

- What should you do to minimize the number and the impact of security incidents?
	Policies and procedures should be thoroughly tested
	Gain management support for security policies and incident handling
	Routinely assess vulnerabilities in your environment
	Routinely check all computer systems and network devices for patches version
	Establish security training
	Routinely monitor and analyse network traffic and system performance

- What makes a successful security incident response team?
	They monitor systems for security breaches
	Document and catalog security insidents
	Promote security awareness
	Learn new vulnerabilities
	Provide security consulting services

	- How to prepare the team?
		Proper training
		Portable already configured with right tools to respond to an incident
		Place all emergency system information in a central, offline location

- What are some base roles that should be covered in your response team?
	Team leader
	Incident lead
	Associate members
		IT contact
		Legal representative
		Public relations officers
		Management

- What document should be writen?
	An incident response plan.
	All IT members should be aware of it.

	- What subjects does it cover?
		Make initial assessment
		Communicate the incident
		Contain the damage
		Identify the type and severity of the compromise
		Protect the evidence
		Notify external agencies if appropriate
		Recover systems
		Assess incident damage and cost
		Review the response and update policies

- Why is incident response important?
	Any problem that is not properly contained and handled will spiral into bigger problems, that can lead to the colapse of the system

- An incident response operation will help to do what?
	Minimize loss
	Mitigate the weaknesses that were exploited
	Restore services and processes
	Reduce the risk that can occur from future incidents

- What are the considerations to tackle if you want to have a good incident response?
	Audit and due diligence
		Are the people, processes and equipments ready to respond to an incident?
	Create a response team
	Create a documented incident response plan
		Ex of a starting plan: ISO/IEC 27000
		Covers, at least, roles and responsibilities, investigation, mitigation, recovery, documentation process
	Identify your indicators and triggers
		What should be categorized as an incident?
			ex:
				Loss of equipment
				Loss of information
				Unauthorized software installation
				Unauthorized information transmission
				Attempts to gain unauthorized access to data
				Attemps to breach defined security networks
				Web server's log entries
	Investigate the problem	
		Establish what occurred
		Identify the compromised systems
		Determine what happened to what was compromised
		Determine the point of origin of the incident where possible
		What information was disclosed
		Identifying the potential business impacts
	Triage and mitigation
	Recovery
		Do you clean the infection or do you wipe the machine?
		Allow how much time to prove that a compromised network is now secure?
		Reset passwords
		Install updates and patches
	Documentation and reporting
	Process review
		Lessons learnt log
	Practice
		Simulate live scenarios
		Practice some part of the response

- What is noise in logs?
	Ex: an intrusion attack hidden in a DDoS, the reviewer might not see the intrusion, only the DDoS

- What is failover?
	It is switching to a redundant or standby computer server, system, hardware compenent or network upon failure (or intented (or not ..) termination of the main system)

	Usually automatic, does not need human interaction

	