- What is Ajax?
    A collection of programming techniques used on client side to create interactive interfaces

- What problem does it solves?
    The content of a web page does not necessarly have to be completly reloaded everytime

- What is the core technology used in Ajax?
    XMLHttpRequest, it is now a native JS object

- Does XMLHttpRequest allow arbitrary content?
    Yes

- What is the Same-Origin policy?
    A mechanism that keeps content that came from different origins from interfering with each other.

    A site is not allowed to access content received from other sites

- What would happen if that policy did not exist?
    The user goes to a malicious website, script code running on that site could access the data and functionnality of any other website also visited by the user.

- How do you protect your AJAX end-points on:
    - Client-side?
        use .innerText instead of .innerHtml (will automatically encode the text)

        do not use eval

        Encode before use: when using data to build html, script, css, xml, json, etc. take into account how that data must be presented in a literal sense to keep it's logical meaning. Data should be properly encoded.

        do not rely on client logic for security: debuggers to break into code and change values, skip code, etc. (JS can simply disabled too)

        do not rely on client business logic: just like above. Business rules/logic should be duplicated on the server side

        avoid writing serialization code, use one that exists (xml, json, etc.)

        keep all the secret stuff on the server

        do not perform encryption in client side code, this is the server's job

    - Server-side?
        Use CSRF protection (see CSRF topic)

        Always return json with an oject on the outside
            exploitable: [{"object": "inside an array"}]
            not exploitable: {"result": [{"object": "inside an array"}]}

            - Why is that?
                Because a json object is not valid JS, but a json array is. Therefore, <script src="myscript"></sctip> that contains the json array would be executed, otherwise you would get a JS error
        
        Services can be called by users directly, make sure to validate inputs and treat them like they are under user control

- What are some of the security issues found in AJAX?
    Increased attack surface with more inputs to secure
    Exposed internal functions of the application
    Failure to protect authentication information and sessions

- What are the attacks related to Ajax?
    SQLi
    XSS
    DOM injection
    CSRF
        Visit a web page that makes call to another website on which the user is authenticated
    DoS
        Little script that iterively add (load) images tags to the DOM

- What is generally the biggest challenge while trying to find ajax vulnerabilities?
    Finding the endpoints and then determining the proper format for the malicious request.

