Configuration hardening

- What kind of security issues could show up related to misconfiguration?
    Unpatched security flaws in server software
    Permit directory listing and directory traversal attacks
    Unnecessary backup, sample files
    Unnecessary service enabled (ex: remote administration)
    Default accounts with their default passwords
    Admin or debug functions that are enabled/accessible
    Overly informative error messages
    Misconfigured SSL certificates and encryption settings
    Use of self-signed certificates
    Use of default certificates
    Improper authentication with external systems

- Generally, are server products secure out of the box?
    No, only a few are.

- What is hardening?
    The process of reducing the vulnerability surface.
        Remove functions, services, unnecessary usernames/logins
        Applying patches
        Setting up firewalls
        Managing access rights

- What is a hardening guideline?
    A guideline that your web server should follow
    - What topics should be covered there?
        Configuring all security mechanisms
        Turning off all unused services
        Setting up roles, permissions and accounts, including disabling default accounts or changing their passwords
        Logging and alerts

    - Can you automate the configuration process?
        Yes
        
- The maintenance process should be assigned to someone or to a team. What is that process?
    Monitoring the latest security vulnerabilities published
    Applying the latest security patches
    Updating the security configuration guideline
    Regular vulnerability scanning
    Regular internal reviews of the server security configuration as compared to your configuration guide
    Regular status report

- What are the five steps necessary to maintain basic OS security?
    Planning the installation and deployment of the host OS
    Patching and updating the host as required
    Hardening and configuring the host OS to address security adequately
    Installing and configuring additional security controls, if needed
    Testing the host OS to make sure that the above steps adequately addressed security issues

- What kind of services should usually be disabled on a web server?
    Wireless networking services
    File and printer sharing services
    Language compilers and libraries
    Email services
    System devlopment tools

- Is it better to remove or disable unnecessary services?
    Remove, can be enabled by human error, or an attacker could succeed to enable it.

- How do you secure OS user authentication?
    Remove or disable unneeded default accounts and groups
        Ex: guess accounts
    Create the user groups
    Set the account password policy

- What kind of additionnal security controls could be added to the OS?
    Anti-malware software
    Host-based intrusion detection and prevention software (including DoS)
    Host-based firewalls (protects against unauthorized access)
    Patch management software to ensure that vulnerabilities are addressed promptly

- What can happen if the web server is misconfigured?
    Internal leakage
        SQLi
        /elmah (error handling library publicly accessible)
        Backups (ex: db backups) accessible
    Debug settings
        Website exposed as debug settings
    Excessive access rights
        Principle of least privilege
    Misconfigured SSL
        Ex: still support SSL, still supports SHA1, stil support RC4, etc.
    Weaknesses in default configurations
        Headers in response, like X-AspNet-Version, etc. leaks internal information
        Default passwords

- Is managing servers a set and forget affair?
    No

- What are patch management best practices?
    Have a change control process
    Apply updates on needs basis (critical, low, etc.)
    Have a testing process
    Have a rollback plan (plan for failure and test it)
    Schedule an update cadence
    Automate monitoring

- Plan for the end of life of the technology you rely on, example?
    IIS version
    Third parties

- Should you turn off stuff that you do not need?
    Yes
    Like, if you do not need webdev, well remove it
    Open ports

- What is network segmentation?
    Splitting a computer network into subnetworks, each being a network segment.
        Boost performance and improves security

    - What should be segmented?
        Isolating remote desktop (RDP)
            Allow admin port (ex: 3389) only on internal network, not available over the Internet

- What is sandboxing?
    Isolate processes so that they cannot interact with each other

    ex: in IIS, each website has an application pool, each cannot interact with the others