Business Logic

- What is a business logic vulnerability?
	Instead of a missing security control, it is about ways of using the application legitimate processing flow in way that results in a negative consequence to the organization.

- Is there a common signature for application logic (business logic) flaws? How do you define this risk?
	No.
	Logic implemented in the application is defective in some way. Generally a flawed assumption

- Given a remmember me feature and a name that displays on the screen, those two are encrypted and set as permanent cookies. They use the same encryption. What is the application error?
	You can put the session token in the display name function and decrypt it. You could also put the plain text token you want, set it as your name, and get a valid encrypted token.

- Assuming that the admin can change the password of any users without sending the actual password, and the change password functionality is in the same for admin and user, what could be an application error?
	Check if psw == null, if yes, then admin, if not, then user.

	Related attack: for each parameter, remove them (only one at a time), see what hapens

- What kind of business logic error can occur in multistage processes?
	Assume that the user will have completed prior stages because that is the order in which they are delivered. The users control their requests, the server should verify that the sequence is respected.

- Assuming a multistage questionnary, whose answers are collected in a key,value data structure shared to each state, what application flaw could be found?
	Sending answers of questions not asked for the current stage.
		Bypass input validation for those

		Attack steps: For each stage, take notes of the sent parameter. Then at a given stage, try to also send values for parameters sent in previous stages

- What kind of application logic flaw can be found in numeric limits?
	if mount > 10
		return false
	return true

	What about negative numbers? It might make the application behave in different ways latter on.

- Is there a silver bullet to avoid logic flaws?
	Nope.

- Give a list of test a defender can take.
	Business logic data validation
	Ability to forge requests
	Integrity checks
	Process timing (guess behavior by input/output timing)
	Limit of the number of times a function can be used
	Circumvention of workflows
	Defenses against applicaiton misuse
	Upload if unexpected file types
	Upload of malicious files

- List some good practices to mitigate business logic flaws.
	Record assumptions in the documentation
	Unit testing/TDD
	Integration testing
	Imagine under what conditions the assumptions could be violated
	Think about how the application will handle unexpected behavior

- List some tips regarding business logic mitigation.
	The user controls every aspect of every requests
	Decide user privilege depending on his session, never from data sent from the client-side
	Test all edgecases
	Check if the application enforces the rules and limitations given to the user

- What are the risk of race conditions? (concurrency)
	Bypassing some steps
	More then one process access the same data, which should not be shared
	Crashing the app
	Dead lock

- How do you test for race conditions?
	Internally: extensive code review
	Externally: Identify precise actions (login, change password, send money, etc.) And try to do these actions at the same time with multiple accounts

- What are the common consequences of race conditions?
	Authorization
	Integrity (data corruption)